this is matt roush technology editor WWJ
newsradio 950 and I'm here at Michigan
Technological University in Houghton
today with Elena simona who is associate
professor of Electrical and Computer
Engineering here at Michigan Tech and
she is actually working on electronic
cloaking devices not quite a Harry
Potter cloak of invisibility maybe more
like the Romulan cloaking device in Star
Trek why don't you tell me a little bit
about what that pile of the green
circular objects is there and what it
what it can do we can see here such tiny
little resonators these are our
artificial items okay we create as
resonance conditions they create special
properties which makes artificial
material properties effective modulo
proper to speak unlike the properties of
normal items which we have listed in the
periodic table right so by using these
physical specific properties in by
locating them cific arrangement we can
bend the grace of electromagnetic wave
around Cisco those that if we put a
metallic saying they're inside the
building cities so if you were to say
put a metallic cylinder inside that
circular array and then try to find it
with radar with the dielectrics on the
radar might not be able to see it or
wouldn't be able to see it nearly as
well something okay okay this is not
perfect yet so we have increased
transmission visit cloaking okay it's
not a hundred percent but we
conducting the first experiments thesis
and what I mean what might be some of
the I mean obviously these their their
military potential military applications
here other things whenever you want to
make yourself invisible of course this
is now just for Minecraft a great
frequencies not not visible like we're
not visible light yet for visible lights
you need to have a very tiny resonators
you wouldn't see them restore their iron
okay because they will be at nanoscale
we have a design of a cloak for infrared
and this is made from nano-sized
concatenate glass resonators okay and
again you need a special device to see
this specific 10 years and haters but
the properties are pretty similar to
this one this valley can model this
properties in the lab because they have
a quick meant to to send the vests and
to receive the waves and the other side
to support okay so if you were to cloak
a large metal object in that type of
material somehow or other figure out a
way to do it radar might not be able to
see it right right actually the size of
the object doesn't matter okay it it's
not important that important is a sheep
exist at this point okay the specific
arrangement you only work for a
cylindrical shape okay all right and I'm
going to show people your experiment
here that was presented last year the
top illustration their shows a cylinder
with waves being shown at it you can see
a shadow behind the object but the
bottom illustration shows what happens
when the resonator is working and you
can see the waves at the top of the
chart are pretty much the same as the
waves at the bottom of the chart which
means the waves didn't see the abject at
all right yes okay okay so do you think
there might be some commercialization
potential here when do you think that
might happen any ideas are you just
doing the research now you know this is
in the stage of just proof of concept
right now yeah we can think of many
potential application
first we need to have materials ready
for every frequency range and there is
some work done for visible ranges well
now but probably we can use some other
kind of resonances material resonances
to as we go to current higher
frequencies the type of resonances can
can change or visible range of course we
can envision some applications which
could be used by our where I right so
could be even some toys maybe maybe it's
very expensive at this point but
protection what I can tell you about it
could be a protection from different
electromagnetic radiation well because
it's a kind of shielding yeah all right
dates so you can ban surveys and just
and this is the important problem right
no right so as just a few move past
visible light you get into x rays all
the way up those are damaging right you
could you could potentially shield
against x-rays with this stuff right
because they're all the electromagnetic
phenomena are scalable really depends on
the wavelengths is related to the size
of these resonators of course the
resonances could be different as I told
there are not many materials which can
allow to produce geometric resonances to
create some tiny such tiny resonators at
this range maybe we need to think about
some material related resumes
right resonances like plasmonic poly
rhetoric resonances which I could
exactly higher and higher frequency
ranges okay Thank You Elena solution
associate professor of Electrical and
Computer computer engineering here at
Michigan Tech thank you